OK, so let's get ready to wrap up on this whole phone number passing, and let's implement one last
thing with the passing of this phone number that I eluded to a bit earlier, and that was the fact that
we might want to enable phone numbers of this format.
In fact, let me see, maybe I'll delete that for a moment and.
So in North America.
Well, here, actually, and I'll even do this in North America, we will often see phone numbers in
this format.
And if we run this right now, this is going to fail because we didn't teach it, particularly how to
pass with the parentheses there.
But let's go ahead and run it and see that it will fail.
OK.
So it just, well, it doesn't blow up, but it just doesn't match anything, right?
Because the whole entire string doesn't match our expression here.
So we want to expand our regex a bit so that it will accept everything that we've had thus far, but
also this format.
OK.
And so really, what we're focusing on here is just the use of the parentheses.
And in fact, if I remove these parentheses, this should work.
Yeah.
So we get Noel for the country code, which is appropriate because we're not specifying a country code
right now.
And then we get the rest of it just fine.
So all we have to really do here is just teach it to optionally accept those parentheses.
Now I'm going to make this a little bit of a challenge to you to pause the video and see if you can
figure out a way to do this without breaking the existing functionality.
So why don't you take a few moments to do that and then unpause when you think you've got it?
OK.
Hopefully, you were able to get that.
Now let me work out how to do it in front of you.
OK, so the part that we're interested in is the area code, which is this bit here and we want to allow
for this format.
Additionally, OK, so I think probably an easy way to do this would be first off, I don't want I don't
want those parentheses to be captured, so I don't want to specify anything inside of here.
So this is going to go outside of that.
So I think what I'm going to do now.
Oh yeah.
So you may have had a problem if you tried to do this because there's something that I did not explicitly
teach you.
Maybe some of you might have figured it out on your own, but as you already know, parentheses are
special characters in regular expressions.
And in this particular case, we don't want to use the parentheses as a special character.
We want to use it literally right as just another character.
So we need to tell the regular expression engine to ignore the special meaning of the of the parentheses,
both the opening and the closing, and instead to treat it just as text, right?
Just as a literal.
And to do that, we have to escape it like so right.
So to back slashes allows me to escape the use of the parentheses.
Now the other thing we may or may not have parentheses here, right?
So what do we want?
We probably want to say something like allow for zero or one parentheses in this location.
And how do we do that?
You remember we use the question mark, right?
So this question mark after the thing that we care about means zero zero or one of that really of of
all of that, but of the opening parentheses there.
OK.
And then we want the same thing after this as well, so this parentheses here is the closing capture
group.
So we might want to do something like here's a closing parentheses and then zero or one of that.
Let's try this and see.
Hey, looks like that works.
Yeah, looks like it accepts it.
And then if we get rid of these here, let's make sure that still works.
OK, good.
And then if we have the country code with space.
Yeah, that's still good.
And a period now technically, we could probably even do this, which looks weird.
In fact, we could probably even do this in just pretty weird.
Yet that works to now, technically, you might not want to allow that, but I honestly think that our
projects is going to get pretty unwieldy, potentially.
I'll leave that as an exercise for you if you really, really care about those rules, because then
you're getting into things where you kind of want to exclude now, actually, not that it's actually
all that hard.
What you could do is if you wanted to say that use of the period or the opening parentheses are mutually
exclusive, then one thing you could definitely do is simply include the opening parentheses there within
the bracket expression, right?
So you're saying accept any one of these, but not multiples of that, so you could do something like
that.
But I opted to just put it here explicitly because I didn't want to think that hard right now in case
there may be some other repercussions to that decision.
But on the face of it, I think that would work just fine, at least for simple cases or relatively
simple cases.
Right?
OK.
So yeah, I think we pretty much got it there.
You know, for, like I said, for a relatively simple pass at least and put this back to that format.
And so hopefully this has opened your eyes to how you can pass something out.
That is, yeah, a little.
I don't know.
I don't know if you consider this to be trivial or not.
Maybe I would call it somewhere between beginner to intermediate, perhaps.
But you know, with these skills that you've learned here so far, you can start to open up the world
of possibilities to do more things.
And we are going to jump into some more examples here in the subsequent lessons.
We're not quite done with rejects just yet.
All right.
So that's going to wrap up.
I think everything that we want to do with phone numbers for for the time being, and we're going to
move on to some other regex related topics in the next lessons, and I'll see you there.